MTM-66634 - release notes - alarm upsert endpoint (#4755)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/cumulocity-2026-165-0-alarm-upsert-endpoint.md

---
date: ''
title: Upsert alarm endpoint
product_area: Platform services
change_type:
- value: change-QHu1GdukP
  label: Feature
component:
- value: component-JlFdtOPva
  label: REST API
build_artifact:
- value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
  label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-66518
version: 2026.165.0
---

> {{< product-c8y-iot >}} now provides a dedicated alarm upsert endpoint (`POST /alarm/alarms/upsert`).

Reviewer: Is it "upsert alarm" or "alarm upsert"? Please unify.

Author: I changed it to "alarm upsert"

> The operation creates a new alarm if no non-cleared alarm with the same source and type exists,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operation creates a new alarm if no uncleared alarm with the same source and type exists,
```

> or updates the existing one otherwise. The response status reflects the outcome: `201 Created`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or updates the existing one otherwise. The response status reflects the outcome `201 Created`
```
